---
title: GPLint v2 released
authors: Nyaran
---

We are proud to release the v2 of GPLint today.

This release comes with a lot of effort to improve things and bring all the new features of Gherkin syntax.

<!-- truncate -->

## New features

### Load custom rules with .mjs and .cjs

Now we support loading custom rules with mjs and cjs extensions, and the TypeScript equivalents, mts and cts.

### Gherkin's Rule support added to all rules

From this new version, we added support to all rules to
use [Gherkin's Rule node](https://cucumber.io/docs/gherkin/reference/#rule). The following rules has new configuration
options related with Gherkin's Rule node:
 * [`allow-all-caps`](/docs/rules/allow-all-caps): Added "rule" level
 * [`allow-all-lowercase`](/docs/rules/allow-all-lowercase): Added "rule" level
 * [`no-dupe-scenario-names`](/docs/rules/no-dupe-scenario-names): Added `in-rule` and `in-rule-compile` config.
 * [`required-tags`](/docs/rules/required-tags): Added "rule" level and extendRule option.

### Improved rule `no-restricted-patterns`
The rule `no-restricted-patterns` has new configuration options:
 * `Examples`:
 * `ExampleHeader`:
 * `ExampleBody`:
 * `DocString`:
 * `DataTable`:

#### 
Now you are able to set patters to "Examples", "ExampleHeader" and "ExampleBody"
```json
{
  "no-restricted-patterns": ["error", {
    "Examples": [
      "poor examples name",
      "really bad examples description"
    ],
    "ExampleHeader": [
      "^.*disallowed.*$"
    ],
    "ExampleBody": [
      "^.*invalid.*$"
    ]
  }]
}
```
#### DocStrings and DataTable

Now you are able to set patters to "Examples", "ExampleHeader" and "ExampleBody"


      Rules improvements:
          Improve no-restricted-patterns:
              Support Example, ExampleHeader and ExampleBody.
              Support DocString and DataTable from Steps with it own configuration key (check README.md).


## Bug fixes

### [no-partially-commented-tag-lines](/docs/rules/no-partially-commented-tag-lines)

Fix [no-partially-commented-tag-lines](/docs/rules/no-partially-commented-tag-lines) rule, detecting comments separated from
tag (configurable). Refer to [its own documentation page](/docs/rules/no-partially-commented-tag-lines) to know how to
configure it.

## Breaking changes
### Removed deprecated "on" config

To follow the way other linting tools work, like eslint, we removed the "on" option as a valid config level. It should
be replaced with a level string, "error" or "warn".

### required-tags, remove deprecated `tags` option

On rule `required-tags` the `tags` config was renamed to `scenario`, to avoid confusions with the other levels (global,
feature, example, etc.).

```json lines
// v1
{
  "required-tags": ["error", {"tags": [["@ready", "@manual", "@wip"]]}]
}

// v2
{
  "required-tags": ["error", {"scenario": [["@ready", "@manual", "@wip"]]}]
}
```

```json lines
// v1
{
  "no-files-without-scenarios": "on",
  "file-name": ["on", {"style": "PascalCase"}]
}

// v2
{
  "no-files-without-scenarios": "warn",
  "file-name": ["error", {"style": "PascalCase"}]
}
```

## Project updates

### Dropped Node.js v14 and v16 support

We are discontinuing support for older and unmaintained Node.js versions. GPLint v2 will no longer support Node.js v16
and below. We recommend users upgrade to Node.js v20.

### Added Node.js v20 and v22 support

We are adding support latest Node 20 (not limited to 20.4 anymore) and 22.

### CommonJS to ESM Transition

We transitioned to the new Node.js module system, with a big rework of our code. It should not affect if using GPLint as
a cli tool, if you have problems with integration, please,
first [read this](https://gist.github.com/sindresorhus/a39789f98801d908bbc7ff3ecc99d99c)
